Plagiarism Exercise 
I                                     (type your name) have read this assignment completely and understand plagiarism, academic integrity, and all forms of cheating and do solemnly promise that I will not plagiarize, improperly use another person’s work, or cheat.  Date ___________________

The following exercise consists of twelve questions, including multiple-choice and True/False questions. 
Make sure you have read the university Code of Conduct carefully before taking the test. 
http://www.eiu.edu/judicial/studentconductcode.php
Pay close attention to the definition of Plagiarism.
Complete the exercise by yellow highlighting the correct answers and submit a copy to your instructor on D2L. The first one is done for you.
Question. 1. You’re up late on a Sunday night finishing your paper for your 8:00 a.m. class. You find a passage on Shakespeare’s life in the introduction of a textbook. Thinking the teacher hasn’t read this particular book before, you decide to copy a short sentence from the passage to fill out this paper.
According to the School of Technology’s regulations on plagiarism, what could happen to the student? 

a.	The instructor assigns the student’s paper a failing grade. 
b.	The instructor assigns the student a failing grade for the class. 
c.	The student is referred to the Office of Student Standards. 
d.	All of the above. 

* If a, b, or c is chosen: This is true, but the correct answer is d, all of the above. All these consequences, while severe, are the appropriate penalties for a student caught committing an act of plagiarism or cheating according to School of Technology and University policy. It is up to the individual professor to determine the severity of and consequences for an act of plagiarism in their classroom. 
** If d is chosen that is the most correct. According to the standard, any student caught plagiarizing can face a failing grade for the assignment, a failing grade for the class, or other penalties after being referred to the Office of Student Standards.

Question 2. 
You’ve been unsuccessful in finding enough information for a research paper in the library, so you decide to go to the computer lab to do an online search. 
Using a common search engine, you find a number of websites, including one that looks official, and another with even more information. Neither website has an author name, nor do they cite any outside sources.  
If you want to write the best paper possible and avoid plagiarism, what should you do?  
a.	Use one of the website’s information in the paper and use proper APA in text reference format and include in the reference page.
b.	Copy and paste a couple of short passages. You don’t think they’ll be noticed. 
c.	Close down the search, open another browser, and search for reliable articles using one of the online databases through Booth Library. 
d.	Send the instructor of the class an email explaining the situation, and, in the meantime, keep searching for reliable source. 

* If a is chosen:  This is the most correct answer. Always properly reference information you use when writing papers, if it is a good source or not.
* If b is chosen:  This is intentional plagiarism, and will almost certainly be caught. The best solution is either c or d. 
* If c is chosen: You will still need to correctly reference the information you received from the source
* If d is chosen: You may be wasting your time. The instructor is not writing your paper.  

Question 3-5. 
The following 3 questions will test your knowledge of word-for-word plagiarism and plagiaphrasing with passages from the same textbook. 
Question 3. Read the original source material on the left. Then, closely compare it with the text from the student version, and determine whether it is an example of word-for-word plagiarism, a plagiaphrase, both, or not plagiarism at all. 
 
Source
In the 1970s mass audience advertising in the United States became more racially integrated than at any time in the nation’s history. Blacks, and to a much lesser extent Latinos and Asians, could be seen in television commercials spread across the broadcast week and in major magazines. In fact, the advertisements on network television often appeared to be more fully integrated than the television programs they supported. (559) 
Source: Wilson, Clint C. and Felix Gutierrez. “Advertising and People of Color” The World is a Text Ed. Jonathan Silverman. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson, 2006. 554-60.


Text. 
Advertising’s purpose is to reach either a broad or specific target audience. In recent years, advertisers have been trying to appeal to a more diverse audience, though network television is still trying to keep up. Often, advertisements are more diverse than the television shows on the networks (Wilson, 2006, p. 559).  






 
1.	Word-for-word plagiarism
2.	Plagiaphrasing*
3.	Both 
4.	Not a case of plagiarism


Question 4. Read the original source material on the left. Then, closely compare it with the text version from a student paper, and determine whether it is an example of word-for-word plagiarism, a plagiaphrase, both, or not plagiarism at all. 
 
Source
Impromptu scribbling aside, one remarkable aspect of “Teen Spirit” was that unlike many previous songs of its type, it didn’t blame the older generation for anything – it laid the blame at the feet of its own audience. That implies a sense of responsibility that didn’t quite fit the slacker stereotype. (655)
Text
One of the most iconic songs of the 90s, Nirvana’s “Smells Like Teen Spirit” is remarkable, in that it doesn’t blame the older generation for anything, but lays blame for the generation apathy at the feet of its own slacker audience.  
Source: Azzerad, Michael. “Smells Like Teen Spirit” The World is a Text Ed. Jonathan Silverman. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson, 2006. 655-7.



 


1.	Word-for-word plagiarism*
2.	Plagiaphrasing
3.	Both
4.	Not a case of plagiarism

 

Question 5. 
Read the original source material on the left. Then, closely compare it with the student version, and determine whether it is an example of word-for-word plagiarism, a plagiaphrase, both, or not plagiarism at all. 
 
Source
The lyric poem seeks to mesmerize time. It crosses frontiers and outwits the temporal. It seeks to defy death, coming to disturb and console you. (87)
Source: Hirsh, Edward. “How to Read a Poem.” The World is a Text Ed. Jonathan Silverman. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson, 2006. 84-90.

Text
Lyric poetry can have many surreal effects on the reader, and like many poets who came before, it exists through time, defying death and disturbing readers. 



 
1.	Word-for-word plagiarism
2.	Plagiaphrasing
3.	Both*
4.	Not a case of plagiarism


Questions 6-9. True or False
Question 6. 
In your final research project, you have taken some notes on paper about your source material. Within the text, you cite the author's name for a source, but don’t include specifics, such as a page number or the year published. Is this plagiarism? 
(answer: True; explanation: If you do not cite the exact page number for MLA documentation or the year for APA within your paper, your instructor will suspect you of plagiarism because they’ll find it next to impossible to find your cited material. In order to prove you have not misinformed your reader or attributed something to the wrong source, include all names, page numbers, and dates while writing your paper, starting when you take notes.) 
Question 7. 
You’re writing about a computer manufacturing case for your Advanced Database Technolgy class. You carefully cite the source right after an introductory summary, but you neglect to put in quotation marks a few words and phrases in the text that you have copied. Can you still be in trouble for plagiarism?
(answer: True; explanation: You can’t forget the quotation marks! Though you cited the source, if you don’t attribute unique words or phrasing to the original writing, you are deceptively presenting that wording as your own original work, which is plagiarism.) 
Question 8. 
For your first research paper in Research in Technology class, you properly quote and cite material from several credible sources, but go on to summarize other arguments from those sources and a few others. Realizing you forgot to cite these ideas, you go back and put in citations after almost every sentence in your paper. Can this still be a case of plagiarism? 
(answer: True; explanation: Though you may think you have your bases covered by attributing everything in your paper to outside sources, your paper doesn’t contain any original material. Without your own analyses in your own voice, this isn’t a research paper – it’s plagiarism.) 
Question 9. 
For one paper, your instructor gives you free reign to choose your topic and make an interesting argument, as long as you make the page requirement and cite a certain number of sources. Since you’re interested in Steve Job’s networking model, you make that your topic. After doing some research and deciding on your argument, you sit down to write your paper. When you come up one page short, you remember that you wrote a paper in high school on Jobs. You then take one passage from your old paper and copy it into your new one. Is this plagiarism? 
(answer: True; explanation:  Though some people don’t consider self-plagiarism possible, in this case this is considered academic dishonesty. On the university level, all written work needs to be carefully-researched and original material. Unless you ask your teacher well before the paper’s deadline if you can use any of your previously-written paper, this is plagiarism.)

Question 10-12. Read the question carefully, then choose the best option. 
Question 10. Which of the following could be consider common knowledge, and, therefore, needs no citation? 
1.	On average, Food Network runs 3-4 advertisements featuring its celebrity cooks during every half-hour program.
2.	Users of cookbooks generally receive the books as gifts, as fans of the celebrity chef often spread information by word-of-mouth. One user, Ashley Thompson, a radiologic technician, affirmed this, telling me that “I told everyone how much I loved Rachael [Ray] … so it started with my mom buying me my oldest [book].”  
3.	Rachael Ray, who is not a classically-trained chef, compiles recipes from her show as well as others from her personal collection according to a theme, often referring back to what made her famous – the 30-Minute Meals concept, putting a “quick and easy” twist on a number of classic recipes.
4.	In the past, it was more common for home cooks to receive a cookbook as gifts. My mother and grandmother both received large cookbooks for wedding gifts, which they use exclusively for their home cooking.

Answer: 4; explanation: This is personal information to the writer, which, of course, cannot be attributed to any source. 1 is a statistic. 2 is not only researched, but it contains a quoted, unique phrase to the author.  3 is a personal interview, which must be cited within the text as well as on the Works Cited page. 
Question 11. Which passage requires an in-text citation? 
1.	In William Faulkner’s story “A Rose for Emily,” a strong female protagonist is alienated by a society that has controlled her so long that she has no choice but to choose an unfortunate and gruesome end. 
2.	In William Faulkner’s story “A Rose for Emily,” the title character’s father does not believe that any of the young men in the town of Jefferson “were quite good enough for Miss Emily,” and he keeps rejecting her suitors until his death, effectively ensuring Emily’s own demise.
3.	In William Faulkner’s story “A Rose for Emily,” the values of a backwards Southern society hold back the title character from achieving happiness.
4.	In William Faulkner’s story “A Rose for Emily,” several aspects of the story show that it is actually narrated by the town in which the title character lives. 
Answer: 2.  The other options are original, while the second option not only includes very specific details, but also quoted phrasing, which requires an in-text citation. 

Question 12.  How can you prevent plagiarism in your own writing? 
1.	Taking thorough notes during research, making sure you write down authors’ names and publication information as well as page numbers. 
2.	Consult a citation handbook or notes on proper documentation from class or the Writing Center, and apply those rules to your writing.  
3.	Never use another student’s paper as a guide.
4.	All of the above. 
Answer – 4.



